---
layout: post
title: 2013 In Review, Part 1
description: "Things what I did in 2013"
tags: [year in review, navel gazing, egocentricity, family, tv, films, books]
image:
  feature: year-in-review.jpg
published: false
share: true
---

I am often asked by fans of this blog (Hi mum![^1]) if I'll do a year in review 
round up post, I figured it'd be basically _rude_ not to. This post will mainly
concern...

## Home stuff

2013 was a year of consolidation. After the monumental upheavals of 2012, this
was always going to be about trying to get our feet back on the ground.

Nate transitioned from a baby into a toddler, first steps, first (sort of) words,
Sheila was able to go back to work, we both got a bit more sleep, all that sort 
of thing. In some ways, usually as we're telling him for the fourth time in 7 minutes
_not_ to climb on the television, we find ourselves missing the time when he was 
very small indeed, and if you put him down somewhere, he'd stay still, and maybe bat 
at a brightly coloured toy, for _hours_. Of course, because of the nature of the
brain, we _don't_ remember that at that point we were staggering round in a sleep 
deprived, muddled mess, functioning at a generally pretty low level.

In spite of his increased mobility, and increasing indications of cheekiness, things
_are_ better now; he's even started pulling his weight. This evening he happily helped
us hang up the laundry to dry, a trait which I'm SURE won't disappear once he's 
properly figured out video games.

I've also developed a very broad knowledge of CBeebies schedule and onscreen talent,
much to the detriment of my knowledge of proper grown up telly, which leads me to...

### Owen's <strike>TV</strike> Mostly CBeebies Awards

__Best Single Programme__  
The _Old Jack's Boat_ Christmas special. An absolute walk over this; it was better
than any other Christmas program on any channel that I saw, including the _Who_ 
special and _Death Comes to Pemberly_. Written by Russel "The" Davies, it was a sweet
little story that ended with an almighty emotional punch to the gut, delivered by 
Bernard Cribbins, in a flat out magnificent performance. It's on [iPlayer](http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/b03mnk7d/Old_Jacks_Boat_The_Christmas_Quest/), go and watch it, quick!

__Best New Show__  
_Katie Morag_. This is a Sunday-evening-mug-of-hot-chocolate of a programme, made of 
pure heart. My own interaction with the Scottish Western Isles is limited to visiting Bute 
once or twice, and taking ferry rides to Dunoon fairly often, but this show will make you
want to buy your Calmac ticket this week.

__Most Irritating Show__  
In spite of a strong effort from hosts Chris and Poi, the maddening _Show Me, Show Me_ is pipped
at the post this year by the frankly demented _Green Balloon Club_. You know those truly awful
junior school plays you were probably in as a child, with lots of awkwardly standing 
children, staring fixedly just up and to the left of the audience, stammering out their
lines as quickly as possible in case they forget any of it? That's _The Green Balloon Club_, 
only it's on telly, with an achingly right on environmental message, and they made more than
one before saying "you know what? This is awful." and shitcanning it.

__Lifetime Achievement Award In Getting The Toddler Off To Sleep__  
_In The Night Garden_. Again.

__Most Questionable Interview Comment__  
Katie McGrath on _Saturday Kitchen_[^2]. Talking about her new series, _Dracula_,
McGrath remarked that they had "gone back to the book." I am assuming, therefore that she
read a different book to me, as the one I read didn't have an Irish[^3] Dracula posing as
an American industrialist in league with Van Helsing against the Illuminati (or something)
whilst Lucy (McGrath's character) gets into a lesbian tryst with a vampire huntress, who
fights using the long fabled skill of Kleavage Kung Fu. On the other hand, if Katie McGrath
could send me that book, that'd be great, because it sounds _awesome_.

### Books What I Read

A pretty bad year of reading for me, in all honesty. Parenthood has mostly cured my insomnia, 
so I have less time to get to grips with books.

[^1]: Just kidding. My mum doesn't read this. Why would she?
[^2]: I assume I'd turned over from CBeebies because _The Green Balloon Club_ had started.
[^3]: In fairness, Jonathan Rhys Meyers is _going_ for Transylvanian...